Update guidelines on doc deploy (#116)
pyansys/dev-guide: doc/source/how-to/documenting.rst

defines the first level of your documentation hierarchy.  The ``toctree``
directive (which stands for "table of contents tree") indicates the maximum

> number of heading levels that the documentation is to display. Below this

Reviewer: ```suggestion
number of heading levels that the documentation is to display. Following this
```

Reviewer: The Vale linter, when implemented, will flag above and below as errors--so I'm suggesting we fix it now.

directive are the directory names for your documentation sections.

.. include:: diag/doc_layout.rst

Each documentation chapter has its own ``index.rst`` file, as shown by previous

> figure. The documentation layout can be modelled using the following code in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
figure. The documentation layout can be modeled using the following code in
```

generates your documentation on each pull request and then deploys under
certain conditions.

Documentation Workflow
++++++++++++++++++++++

> Your documentation workflow should be within the ``.github/workflows``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your documentation workflow should be in the ``.github/workflows``
```

directory and should be triggered on each PR. It should use one of the
following approaches:

.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: Using ``tox``

>         The best way to get started with this is to use the `ansys-templates`_ tool and run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        The best way to get started with ``tox`` is to use the `ansys-templates`_ tool and run:
```

documentation is written to ``doc/_build/html``, upload your documentation
with:

.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: Using ``tox``

        .. code-block:: yaml
        
            - name: Upload HTML Documentation
              uses: actions/upload-artifact@v2
              with:
                name: HTML-Documentation
                path: .tox/doc_out/
                retention-days: 7

    .. group-tab:: Without Using ``tox``

        .. code-block:: yaml
        
            - name: Upload HTML Documentation
              uses: actions/upload-artifact@v2
              with:
                name: HTML-Documentation
                path: doc/_build/html
                retention-days: 7

This allows anyone creating pull requests to download documentation build

> artifacts as a convenient zip and to open the documentation by opening

Reviewer: ```suggestion
artifacts as a convenient zip file and to open the documentation by opening
```

``index.html``.

Deploying to GitHub Pages
+++++++++++++++++++++++++

> Next, deploy your documentation to the ``gh-pages`` branch via using the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, deploy your documentation to the ``gh-pages`` branch with:
```

`JamesIves/github-pages-deploy-action
<https://github.com/JamesIves/github-pages-deploy-action>`_ action.

.. admonition:: Deploying to another repository.

>    If you are planning to deploy documentation to another repository rather than
>    the one for your project, make sure you create this new repo before deploying
>    for the first time your documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   If you are planning to deploy documentation to repository other than
   the one for your project, make sure you create this new repository before deploying
   your documentation for the first time.
```

> The following job step shows the logic for deploying. If you wish to deploy to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following job step shows the logic for deploying. If you want to deploy to
```

another repository, make sure to uncomment the ``repository-name`` line and
declare the name of your documentation repository:

.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: Using ``tox``

        .. code-block:: yaml
        
            - name: Deploy
              if: github.event_name == 'push' && contains(github.ref, 'refs/tags')
              uses: JamesIves/github-pages-deploy-action@4.3.0
              with:
                token: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
                # repository-name: pyansys/repository-name
                branch: gh-pages
                folder: .tox/doc_out
                clean: true

    .. group-tab:: Without Using ``tox``

        .. code-block:: yaml

            - name: Deploy
              if: github.event_name == 'push' && contains(github.ref, 'refs/tags')
              uses: JamesIves/github-pages-deploy-action@4.3.0
              with:
                token: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
                # repository-name: pyansys/repository-name
                branch: gh-pages
                folder: doc/_build/html
                clean: true

> Notice that for previous job steps, a ``GITHUB_TOKEN`` is required. Github

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Notice that for previous job steps, a ``GITHUB_TOKEN`` is required. GitHub
```

automatically generates the token ``GITHUB_TOKEN`` which you can use as
``token`` for deploying documentation to the same repo. However, if you are
planning to deploy to another repo this token does not have the permissions to
do it.

In that case, there are two options for documentation deployment, using a bot
and using a personal access token (PAT). Depending on your profile (how many

> organizations you work in, the rights in the different repositories, etc), using

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
organizations you work in, the rights in the different repositories, etc.), using
```

> In that case, there are two options for documentation deployment, using a bot
> and using a personal access token (PAT). Depending on your profile (how many
> organizations you work in, the rights in the different repositories, etc.), using
> a PAT can be potentially dangerous because PAT are not restricted to defined
> repositories, rather have general permissions. This means that a PAT with
> `repository-write` permission can write in any repo in any organization that the
> PAT creator can access.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, there are two options for documentation deployment, using a bot
and using a personal access token (PAT). Depending on your profile (such as how many
organizations you work in and your permissions for different repositories), using
a PAT can be potentially dangerous because a PAT is not restricted to defined
repositories but rather has general permissions. This means that a PAT with
`repository-write` permission can write in any repository in any organization that the
PAT creator can access.
```

> Therefore, the recommended approach is to **use a Bot**. However, you are free
> to use a PAT if you feel it fits your needs better.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Therefore, the recommended approach is to **use a bot**. However, you can use a
PAT if you feel it fits your needs better.
```

Deploying by Using a Bot
""""""""""""""""""""""""

> To deploy documentation to repo different than the one where the documentation
> is generated, you need permissions to access (*read/write*) this second repo.
> These permissions can be handled using a specifically created bot. In PyAnsys
> organization, there is `PyAnsys Bot`_ which has read and write permission across
> some repositories and can be used for this purpose.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To deploy documentation to a repository other than the one where the documentation
is generated, you must have permissions to access (*read/write*) this second repository.
These permissions can be handled using a specifically created bot. In the PyAnsys
organization, there is `PyAnsys Bot`_, which has read and write permission across
some repositories and can be used for this purpose.
```

.. admonition:: Organization approval to use PyAnsys bot

>     You need internal approval to use PyAnsys bot as your repo needs to added to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    You need internal approval to use PyAnsys bot as your repo needs to be added to
```

>     You need internal approval to use PyAnsys bot as your repo needs to be added to
>     its list of repositories.
>     Please email `PyAnsys Support <pyansys.support@ansys.com>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    You need internal approval to use PyAnsys bot because your repository must be added to
    its list of repositories. For more information, email `PyAnsys Support <pyansys.support@ansys.com>`_.
```

> Once your repository has been added to the bot repositories white-list, you need to add the
> following code to your CICD YAML file for the authentication:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once your repository has been added to the white-list for the the bot repositories, you must add the
following code to your CICD YAML file for the authentication:
```

.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: Using ``tox``

        .. code-block:: yaml

          - name: Get Bot Application Token
            if: github.event_name == 'push' && contains(github.ref, 'refs/tags')
            id: get_workflow_token
            uses: peter-murray/workflow-application-token-action@v1
            with:
              application_id: ${{ secrets.BOT_APPLICATION_ID }}
              application_private_key: ${{ secrets.BOT_APPLICATION_PRIVATE_KEY }}

    .. group-tab:: Without Using ``tox``

        .. code-block:: yaml

          - name: Get Bot Application Token
            if: github.event_name == 'push' && contains(github.ref, 'refs/tags')
            id: get_workflow_token
            uses: peter-murray/workflow-application-token-action@v1
            with:
              application_id: ${{ secrets.BOT_APPLICATION_ID }}
              application_private_key: ${{ secrets.BOT_APPLICATION_PRIVATE_KEY }}

> and the following for the documentation deployment:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, you must add the following code for the documentation deployment:
```

.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: Using ``tox``

        .. code-block:: yaml
        
            - name: Deploy
              if: github.event_name == 'push' && contains(github.ref, 'refs/tags')
              uses: JamesIves/github-pages-deploy-action@4.3.0
              with:
                token: ${{ steps.get_workflow_token.outputs.token }}
                repository-name: pyansys/repository-name
                branch: gh-pages
                folder: .tox/doc_out
                clean: true

    .. group-tab:: Without Using ``tox``

        .. code-block:: yaml

            - name: Deploy
              if: github.event_name == 'push' && contains(github.ref, 'refs/tags')
              uses: JamesIves/github-pages-deploy-action@4.3.0
              with:
                token: ${{ steps.get_workflow_token.outputs.token }}
                repository-name: pyansys/repository-name
                branch: gh-pages
                folder: doc/_build/html
                clean: true

> Deployin by Using a Personal Access Token

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deploying by Using a Personal Access Token
```

"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

> To setup the documentation deployment using a Personal Access Token (PAT), you
> need to create a personal access token first in the ``Settings`` section in your
> GitHub profile. In the left side bar, select the ``Developer Settings`` section
> and then ``Personal access tokens``. Finally, click ``Generate new token`` and
> give it ``write`` permissions on ``Repositories`` at least. You will be prompted
> with the value of the ``TOKEN``. Make sure to copy the value of the ``TOKEN`` as
> you will not be able to retrieve it later. Finally, click ``Configure SSO`` to
> allow using it with the PyAnsys repositories you have access to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To set up the documentation deployment using a Personal Access Token (PAT), you
must first create a PAT in the ``Settings`` section in your
GitHub profile. In the left side bar, select the ``Developer Settings`` section
and then ``Personal access tokens``. Finally, click ``Generate new token`` and
give it ``write`` permissions on ``Repositories`` at least. You are then prompted
with the value of the ``TOKEN``. Make sure to copy the value of the ``TOKEN`` as
you are not be able to retrieve it later. Finally, click ``Configure SSO`` to
allow using it with the PyAnsys repositories you have access to.
```

new secret named ``DEPLOY_DOCS_PAT`` in the repository of the project. Use this
secret in your CI/CD:

.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: Using ``tox``

        .. code-block:: yaml
        
            - name: Deploy
              if: github.event_name == 'push' && contains(github.ref, 'refs/tags')
              uses: JamesIves/github-pages-deploy-action@4.3.0
              with:
                token: ${{ secrets.DEPLOY_DOCS_PAT }}
                repository-name: pyansys/repository-name
                branch: gh-pages
                folder: .tox/doc_out
                clean: true

    .. group-tab:: Without Using ``tox``

        .. code-block:: yaml

            - name: Deploy
              if: github.event_name == 'push' && contains(github.ref, 'refs/tags')
              uses: JamesIves/github-pages-deploy-action@4.3.0
              with:
                token: ${{ secrets.DEPLOY_DOCS_PAT }}
                repository-name: pyansys/repository-name
                branch: gh-pages
                folder: doc/_build/html
                clean: true

Deploying when Tagging
++++++++++++++++++++++

Depending on your preferences, you may choose to update the documentation on

> tags only (as done above), or on each push. If you wish to have your

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tags only (as done earlier) or on each push. If you want to have your
```

> tags only (as done above), or on each each push. If you wish to have your

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
tags only (as done above), or on each push. If you wish to have your
```

documentation is written to ``doc/_build/html``, upload your documentation
with:

.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: Using ``tox``

        .. code-block:: yaml
        
            - name: Upload HTML Documentation
              uses: actions/upload-artifact@v2
              with:
                name: HTML-Documentation
                path: .tox/doc_out/
                retention-days: 7

    .. group-tab:: Without Using ``tox``

        .. code-block:: yaml
        
            - name: Upload HTML Documentation
              uses: actions/upload-artifact@v2
              with:
                name: HTML-Documentation
                path: doc/_build/html
                retention-days: 7

> This will allow anyone creating pull requests to download documentation build

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This allows anyone creating pull requests to download documentation build
```

Next, deploy your documentation to the ``gh-pages`` branch via using the
``JamesIves/github-pages-deploy-action`` action:

.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: Using ``tox``

        .. code-block:: yaml
        
            - name: Deploy
              if: github.event_name == 'push' && contains(github.ref, 'refs/tags')
              uses: JamesIves/github-pages-deploy-action@4.3.0
              with:
                github-token: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
                branch: gh-pages
                folder: .tox/doc_out
                clean: true

    .. group-tab:: Without Using ``tox``

        .. code-block:: yaml

            - name: Deploy
              if: github.event_name == 'push' && contains(github.ref, 'refs/tags')
              uses: JamesIves/github-pages-deploy-action@4.3.0
              with:
                github-token: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
                branch: gh-pages
                folder: doc/_build/html
                clean: true

Notice that for previous job steps, a ``GITHUB_TOKEN`` is required. This repo

> needs ``write`` rights and SSO access if you plan to deploy to the ``gh-pages``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
needs ``write`` permission and SSO access if you plan to deploy to the ``gh-pages``
```

of another branch.

To create the ``TOKEN``, go to the ``Settings`` section in your GitHub profile.
In the left side bar, select the ``Developer Settings`` section and then
``Personal access tokens``. Finally, click on ``Generate new token`` and give it
``write`` permissions. You will be prompted with the value of the ``TOKEN``.

> Finally, click on ``Configure SSO`` to allow using it with the PyAnsys
> repositories you have access to.

Reviewer 3: Marina complained that she got authentication errors even she did approve the SSO.
Hence I would add:

```suggestion
Finally, click on ``Configure SSO`` to allow using it with the PyAnsys
repositories you have access to.

.. note::
   In some cases, the authentification might need specific approval. 
   If you do still get authentification errors such as:
   
   .. code:: python
      :emphasize-lines: 1,2,9
      
      remote: The `pyansys' organization has enabled or enforced SAML SSO. To access
      remote: this repository, visit https://github.com/orgs/pyansys/sso?            authorization_request=AGWYQUM5VKPHAQHRS2H3JNTCVBNE7A5PN5ZGOYLONF5GC5DJN5XF62LEZYB663VUVVRX      EZLEMVXHI2LBNRPWSZGOGU33VEFPMNZGKZDFNZ2GSYLML52HS4DFVNHWC5LUNBAWGY3FONZQ
      remote: and try your request again.
      fatal: unable to access 'https://github.com/pyansys/pynexus-dev-docs.git/': The requested URL returned error: 403
      Running post deployment cleanup jobs… 🗑️
      /usr/bin/git checkout -B github-pages-deploy-action/x00pqaqlu
      Reset branch 'github-pages-deploy-action/x00pqaqlu'
      /usr/bin/chmod -R 777 github-pages-deploy-action-temp-deployment-folder
      /usr/bin/git worktree remove github-pages-deploy-action-temp-deployment-folder --force
      Error: The deploy step encountered an error: The process '/usr/bin/git' failed with exit code 128 ❌
      
   Please follow the link in the log to authorize the workflow.
```
